# Genom Classify UI

This repository provides a graphical user interface (GUI) for the genomic classification system developed in the "genom_classify" repository. The application allows users to classify gene sequences by providing an intuitive web interface. The application is built with Flask and requires specific input files to function correctly.

## Prerequisites
- Install [Conda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) if it is not already installed.
- Use the "genom_classify" repository and generate the necessary outputs (`models` folder and `grid_search_results.csv`).

## Setting Up the Environment

1. **Create a Conda Environment**
   ```bash
   conda create --name genom_classify_ui python=3.12 -y
   ```

2. **Activate the Environment**
   ```bash
   conda activate genom_classify_ui
   ```

3. **Install Dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

## Project Structure


```
project_root/
├── app.py
├── models/                  # pre-trained models generated by "genom_classify"
├── grid_search_results.csv  # accuracy results from "genom_classify"
├── requirements.txt
├── templates/
│   ├── index.html           # main page template
│   ├── result.html          # result page template
└── static/                  # optional
```

## Running the Application

1. Navigate to the root directory of the project

2. Run the Flask application:
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

3. Open the web browser and go to:
   ```
   http://127.0.0.1:5000/
   ```

The application will be listening on port 5000 by default

## Required Files

The following files and folders are necessary for the application to work:

1. **`models/` folder:**
   - This folder should contain all the pre-trained models generated by the "genom_classify" repository. The models are used to classify gene sequences based on the chunk size and k-mer configurations.

2. **`grid_search_results.csv`:**
   - A CSV file containing the accuracy results for different chunk sizes and k-mer values, also generated by the "genom_classify" repository.

Without these files, the application will not function correctly.

